
I have made most of the changes that you 
suggested, however there is no UI for 
uploading the updated proceedings on the page 

* https://indico.cern.ch/event/948465/contributions/4324115/editing/paper 

Do you need to do something to make that UI appear ?



> Very nice paper with well written technical description of photons simulation
> on a GPU. Great results. I have few suggestions for minor changes and a
> question:

Thank you for your detailed comments.

> 1. Abstract: It is not very clear from the formulation what is actually the
> scope and the focus of the current paper. Sentence like “In this work we
> describe …” would help.

I have added such a sentence and reduced technical details like "G4Opticks"
to make the abstract a bit more high level.

> 2. Introduction: Paragraph 1: First sentence is confusing. 

The first sentence describes what Opticks is a simple and direct way. 
If readers take nothing else anything from the paper then I want them to take 
away that sentence. That is why it is the first sentence.

> Why do you need to profit from high performance GPU ray tracing. 

The 3rd sentence answers that. Also the target audience for this paper and Opticks 
are exactly those people that "need to profit from high performance GPU ray tracing"
because they are facing optical photon simulation problems.

> I would suggest to start with the
> JUNO experiment and to move the first sentence “Opticks enables Geant4 based …”
> to be the pre-last one, just before “Opticks eliminates these bottlenecks”. And
> rephrase the last one accordingly.

Thank you for your suggestion however the objective of the introduction and the paper 
is to encourage evaluation of Opticks by people from any experiment that have simulations 
limited by optical photons. Given that objective it would be a serious mistake to start with 
such a weak sentence as a description of JUNO.   
The fact that JUNO is the motivation for Opticks is background information from the point of 
view of the objectives of the paper. It is a central feature of Opticks that it can apply 
to any experiment, that is what makes it interesting to many people and that is why the first 
sentence needs to describe the primary subject of the paper : Opticks.
 
The structure of the first paragraph is about as simple as it is possible to be:

1. describe what Opticks is  
2. describe what JUNO is 
3. describe how Opticks helps JUNO  


> 3. Introduction: Paragraph 3: Line 3: “focussed” —> “focused”.

Changed. 

> 4. Section 1.1: Paragraph 1: Missing comma: “Minimizing the dead time and dead
> volume that result from applying a veto requires an understanding of the
> detector response to a muon.” —> “Minimizing the dead time and dead volume,
> that result from applying a veto, requires an understanding of the detector
> response to a muon.”

Commas added.


> 5. Section 1.1: Line 10: “Cerenkov” —> “Cherenkov”

I have changed all "Cerenkov" to "Cherenkov"


> 6. Section 3.3: Paragraph 2: Should be comma instead of point in the last
> sentence, just before “leaving remainder insufficiently repeated nodes …”

Changed. Thank you.

> 7. Section 3.5: Paragraph 2: Missing comma: 
> “During the recursive traversal of the Geant4 geometry tree that creates the parallel tree of Opticks GVolume
> sensor volumes are identified and sensor indices assigned by the presence of surfaces with non-zero efficiencies.” —> 
> “During the recursive traversal of the Geant4 geometry tree, that creates the parallel tree of Opticks GVolume, sensor
> volumes are identified and sensor indices assigned by the presence of surfaces with non-zero efficiencies.”

Added. Thank you : that reads better.


> 8. Section 3.5: Paragraph 2: “allow sensor efficiency data to be handled in a
> detector independent manner.”

Added. Thanks, well spotted.

> 9. Section 3.5: Paragraph 2: “In this way every point on the surfaces of all
> sensor volumes is assigned an efficiency.”

Changed.

> 10. Figure 4: Do you have explanation for the jump in blue curve at 50 M photons?

The blip represents an increased interval time compared to the launch time : so that 
means that the transfer of photon hits from GPU to CPU took longer for that measurement.
Although when making measurements I try to minimize activity on the machine as much as possible 
other processes such as the X11 window manager are still using the GPU and the PCI-E bus 
that connects it to the CPU memory. Hence I assume that such slight blips are caused
by contention on the bus.  


